The main idea of this tool is to clarify the work flow and its input/output
information while you write it rather than execute it. we separate a process into
three major components: logic unit (Job class), flow (plan tree or BlockJob),
and data (config mechanism).

Job class let you define self-documented work flow. also let you modularize your
execution unit for better reusabiliy. the things you should focus here is action
and the corresponding decision on the result. all the data should be ready-to-use
before the job starts (e.g. no file path composing in the job)

JobBlock is a composite of JobNode and JobBlock. so you could compose many units
into tree-structure as your plan.

Config mechanism is a powerful (also complicated) system to prepare input/output
data you need in different scope (e.g. whole process or single Job). it
also provides syntax for variablize the config value which allowed you set variable
in the config value. this is especially useful when you design job in "template".
(e.g. you find a similar pattern for few jobs. the only differences between them
is part of the input value, say a directory of a long filepath. so you new a Job
instance and set the common flow also the long filepath. but, you leave the
directory part as a variable, the syntax will looks like -
    "some/[directory]/in/the/long/file/path".
now, you can copy the template (yes, deeply) into several pieces; and assign
rather than the whole filepath but the directory as a config. the mechanism will
replace that in the runtime. so you will get a well prepared path, which looks like
    "some/real_directory_name/in/the/long/file/path".)

another important issue is tracking what actually did.
Logging is a delegated functionality for every Job. it also provides hierarchical
header/footer for organize the plain-text log.

the cost of planning could be validation. human mistake including typos,
lost-implemtation and business logic update w/o testing

--


JobNode

    you can encapsulate some concrete commands as a JobNode.
    say, checking whether a file existed or execute a shell command.
    to create a JobNode, you have to give an id and a description;
    and assign your method, which contains the commands you need,
    as a callback method.
    optionally, you could give a configuration dictionary for
    each JobNode. so the main difference between JobNode and callback method
    is "context-awareness".

JobBlock

    some job could be separated as several sub-jobs.
    for keeping the integrity of the job,
    we provide JobBlock to encapsulate several small JobNodes.
    in the high level point of view, you could treat the
    JobBlock as single JobNode. yes, they implement the same
    interface, Job. for convenient, we referred JobNode/JobBlock as to Job
    in the following explanation

Job Plan

    we treat the decision step between JobNode/JobBlock as a
    job plan, or you can image it as a path.
    each plan comprises of three parts - starting job, execution result of
    the starting job (we call it as state) and the destination job.
    you should list all the plan explicitly, including
    what's the destination if the state is an error, warning state.

Build a complete flow

    first, create a JobBlock as a process wrapper. then list your job plans and
        assign them to the wrapper. all you need here are job IDs and their states.
        say, add_plan(from_job_id='job_a', state=Job.DONE, to_job_id='job_b')
        (you could think about the detail of each job in the latter steps)
        you may notice that there is a "state", including DONE, SKIP, ERROR and etc.,
        linked between two jobs. it helps us to limit the process with in finite status,
        and indicates the flow of you job plan.

    then, you have to setup each Job instance.
        a job instance could be created by JobNode, JobBlock or even ParaJobBlock;
        it depends on your need. then you have to assign a "callback" method, which
        represent the real execution unit, into the job; and the job instance will
        delegate the execution to the callback method when it starts. you could
        plug and play with the callback, even reuse it in different jobs.
        "what if i need the same execution logic but with different settings?"
        yes, we provide configuration that could be set for each job. access them
        in your callback by self.input['your_input_key']. all the sub job will
        inherit the configuration from its parent.

        let's take a look at callback methods. here's an example:
            def foo_callback(self):
                some_conig = self.input['some_input']
                is_something_happend = None
                try:
                    // do something and set is_something_happend ...
                    if is_something_happend:
                        return Job.SKIP
                    else:
                        return Job.DONE
                except:
                    return Job.ERRO
        first, "self" is the parameter contains configurations.
        then, you should take of every proper/except condition in the callback,
        and return the corresponding "state".

    finally, execute your wrapper, the most outer Job.

Logger

    the Job class maintains a Logger object as class variable.
    this allows you to add a log without initiating any object
    but it may not be convenient for logging in job objects
    (to access a class variable, you need to type more).
    thus, in any job objects, we made delegatation so that you could use log
    method as self member

Input management

    for a large processing, inputs will be set as configurable and inheritable.
    for each Job, we need to explicitly list the input variable name, which
    is referred as to "key"; and its "value" is optional. if the variable is new in
    the whole process, we must assign its value. However, if we want to use it with
    the value assigned before, we could omit the value parameter.

REMIND: add sub job before using reset_lock_n_exit

TODO pig README
TODO check whether the code is only suitable for this case, or could be use in the future
TODO terminate plan checking if reach LAST_JOB
TODO refactor is_valid for Block and Para
TODO naming alignment: neighbor v.s. children
